Welcome back in this lesson you're going to be given word problems to solve by creating functions understanding
functions allows you to solve much harder and more generalized problems.
It's very important to get practice combining everything you've learned so far such as control flow
loops etc. with functions to become an effective programmer.
Many recruits find this jump to solving generalized problems very difficult.
So far you've had a slow and steady increment in the skills you've been learning but understanding functions
gives you a big leap forward.
Sometimes known as a difficulty curve so far your progress in Python has been increasing steadily as
well as your capability to solve more and more difficult problems.
However once you learn about functions you're going to have a huge jump in the level of problem difficulty
they are able to solve just by learning about functions.
So when you have these new problems to solve make sure you're patient with yourself as you begin to
tackle on these harder problems.
And a good piece of advice is to try to break down.
Problem statements into smaller so the problems you can solve either one line of code or just a few
lines of code.
Then you can combine those smaller solutions to a full functional solution.
Remember to take advantage of useful resources for help such as Stack Overflow.
Many of the questions you're going to begin to encounter will be similar to other people's experiences
in the past and will likely already have an easily searchable answer.
Let's have an overview of your function tasks.
Now remember to try your best to all of them.
But if you ever get stuck Don't feel bad about looking at the solutions lesson.
Coming up next often seeing many examples of problems already solved for you helps in gaining those
skills yourself.
Let's quickly go over your actual tests.
Here are the tasks you're going to need to complete using functions and as you can see a basic skeleton
of what the function should look like has been filled in for you in the problem description.
If we take a look at the first example your chomps create a function that takes into integers and returns
true if there are some as time false if there are some is something else.
So here we have the skeleton code for you.
If the name of the function and then the parameters is going to accept and your job is to fill in the
actual code and then below this will have some example inputs and outputs.
So template 0 should be true because there some is ten.
Five plus five returns true.
Sum is 10 to plus 7 does not equal 10.
So it return false.
The basic idea as you'll have a task some skeleton code to fill out and then some example inputs and
outputs so you can tell whether or not you're on the right track.
Task number 2 is create a function that takes into integers and returns true if their sum is 10.
Otherwise return the actual some value.
So note the difference here.
If the sum is 10 we return true.
If it's not 10 then we actually return the number.
So sometimes you'll return the boolean true or other times you're actually going to return the sum task.
Number three is to create a function that takes in a string and returns back.
The first character of that string in uppercase.
So here we see the string hello.
It returned back uppercase h agent returns back capital-T task for create a function that takes on a
string and returns the last two characters if there are less than two characters you should return the
string error and there's a link here.
If you need a bit of a help or a hint here you can see last two Elbot last two of hi hi.
And here we can see we're passing in the string a which has less than two characters.
So return back to string error.
Task 5 is given a list of integers return true if the sequence 1 to 3 is somewhere in that list.
So you should use slicing and a for loop check for this.
For example here we can see in the sequence 1 2 3 we have the sequence 1 2 3 inside of it.
So we say true in this sequence somewhere in this list one to three is an order here.
So we say true.
And in this sequence we have a bunch of ones twos and threes but nowhere along the way do we actually
have one two and three consecutively in a row to return false task.
Number six is given two strings create a function that returns the difference in length between them.
This difference in length should always be a positive number or just 0.
So as a hint you may want to think about using absolute values.
So we're comparing the length of the string and the string.
So string the length difference is zero difference between a and b b the length differences 1 and difference
team B B in a same way.
The difference is one task 7 given a list of integers is the length of the list as an even number.
Return the sum of the list.
If the length of the list is odd return the max value in that list.
So those who are going to have to check for the length the list and then you have two possibilities
of the data type you're going to return.
So we'll call this summer Max here we actually take the max object because it only has 3 or odd element
number for even element number.
We go ahead and sum up all the elements in it.
Task 8 is.
Let's imagine we have agents in the field and they sometimes need to speak in code.
So your job is create a function that takes in a string names such as James or Sindi and replaces all
the vowels with the letter x.
For our purposes consider these letters as vowels A E I O U then additional to this you need to switch
the position of the first and last letters.
So this task is challenging to try to breaking it down into multiple pieces.
We've actually received something pretty similar to this.
We just are now adding on the idea of switching the position of the first and last letters.
So here we can see that James A and E are being replaced by X and then we're switching around J and
S..
So you can see various examples here.
All right best of luck of these tasks.
We'll see you in the next lesson or we go over the solutions.